Training Camp
Match against
Nekoma
Okay...
I'm going!
Bye.
It's four days until our practice match with Nekoma.
In the upcoming match, that spiker and that receiver will be my allies!
This is kind of amazing!
Okay, it's time for training camp!
The heat flickers
Sweat glitters on my skin
Shouts echo and shoulders hit
We asked the sky through the open window
Haikyuu !!
what our summer would be like
Tell me, Mr. Future
Come on, come on, come on
The chance is there
Do it together
Everybody always wants to stand there,
make mistakes, get angry, and struggle
We'll never give up
We don't want it to end
I will continue on with my imagination
I want to struggle and fall and become stronger
I want to persevere, stand back up, do it again,
and never give up
Let me run
I will run to where my imagination leads me
Class 1-1
m 613.5 180 l 610.5 465 1461 652.5 1462.5 370.5
Hinata, you need to settle down.
Need to pee?
Episode Eleven:
The Decision
You're all here.
Yessir!
The practice match against Nekoma takes place in four days.
After that, it'll be time for the interhigh prelims.
There's no time, and you guys are full of weak spots.
There is only one thing to do in order for you slobs to win.
Practice! Practice! Practice!
Keep retrieving that ball until you throw up!
Yessir!
He's already thrown up.
Forward! Forward!
Come on, how many balls are gonna be your last one?!
Focus!
One more!
Here comes!
Nice receive!
Nice, Yamaguchi!
He's completed five! Time to switch.
Next!
Here, sir!
Good work.
Okay. Next, spike practice!
Yessir!
Right on! Take that!
Nice spike!
This is looking real good!
May I go next?
Sure. Sorry!
Okay, we're moving out.
Yessir!
So this is the training camp!
You have got to chill out.
I can't help it! I've never done a training camp before!
What's so great about having a bunch of guys
that smell like armpit in your face all day long?
Tsukishima, you piece of shit!
All air within a 500m radius of Kiyoko does not smell like armpit!
Can you not tell that this air in here is as fresh and clear as the Ou Mountain spring?!
I pity you.
Shimizu lives nearby,
so she goes home when the day's done.
Wh-What are you guys doing?
Take, it's hopeless. We're done for.
Thank you for the food!
Does anyone want seconds?
Yes, thank you!
Okay.
The first-years are up next for the showers.
What's up, Hinata?
Some...
Someone I've never seen before...
is here.
That's impossible.
We're the only ones here today.
It looked like... a child.
Y-You're seeing things.
You probably saw yourself in a mirror or something.
You're probably right.
I'm seeing things, right?
Uh-huh.
You're seeing things.
Just seeing things.
A ghost!
What's all the noise?
You'll make Daichi flip out!
What?
It's only Noya!
What? It's Noya?
B-But...
He shrank!
He's right! You're only as tall as your hair!
Ryuu, you rat!
Stop laughing!
Keep it down.
You'll make Daichi mad—
It's me, Asahi!
Shut up, you guys!
Keep moving your legs!
Stop waving your arms around!
Yessir! One more!
Nice, Hinata!
He's completed five.
Okay, that's one time around for everyone.
Next up is running!
Thank you!
Get moving, moron.
They sure are energetic.
Be quiet.
They even practice during their lunch break.
I saw Kageyama running early in the morning too.
Yeah, Hinata does that too.
He said it's because he didn't have to go over the hills while he's at camp.
Over the hills?
That explains his stamina.
Let me guess.
Are you worrying about the lineup for the match?
I can't decide
on the setter.
For raw power, I'd use Kageyama.
Even though Sugawara has built up his abilities
playing alongside the ace since he was a first-year.
Kageyama has the kind of talent that can skip over that in the blink of an eye.
However, because Sugawara has been playing all this time,
he most likely has the trust of his teammates.
Is the real reason you're having a tough time deciding
due to the fact that Sugawara is in his third year of high school?
Being a third-year means that this year is your last, so it's special.
I'm sorry! I shouldn't interfere.
No, you may be right.
The only time I got to be in the starting lineup in all three years of high school
was when the starting setter, who was my junior,
couldn't play due to an injury.
Back then, it was simply frustrating
that they didn't put me in the match.
But now that I've taken on a coach job, even temporarily,
I can't allow myself to feel like a player.
Hinata! Don't waste your breath shouting! You need that energy for later!
Hey! Where are you going?!
Nobody's following.
Did I go the wrong way?
A bright red jersey.
I've never seen one like it around here.
Whatcha doing?
Um...
I'm lost.
What? Are you from another town?
Yeah.
Is that fun?
What? Not really. This is just a time waster.
Oh.
Do you play volleyball?!
Huh?
Those shoes!
They're volleyball shoes!
Oh, yeah.
I play volleyball too!
My name's Hinata Shouyou!
Kozume.
Kozume? ls that your name?
Kozume...
Kenma.
Kenma, huh?
You in high school?
Yeah.
What year? I'm a first-year!
Second.
Shit! An upperclassman!
I'm so sorry!
It's fine.
I don't really like all that sports-minded, superiority stuff.
Oh, really?
Um, do you like volleyball?
Not really. I play it 'cause it's there.
I don't mind it, I guess, but I don't like getting tired out.
But a friend of mine plays it,
and he probably needs me to play with him.
I think once you start to like it, you'll find it's way more fun.
That's okay.
I'm only doing it for the duration of high school.
What position do you play?
Setter.
Wow! You're nothing like our setter.
Ours is a more "grr"-ing kind of guy.
Oh.
By the way, I'm a middle blocker!
Really?
Do you think that's strange too?
Usually taller guys play my position.
Yeah.
Well, I guess so.
But not really.
They say stuff about me a lot when I go to matches.
Like, "The setter is supposed to be the most talented person on the team, so why him?"
I'm not all that athletic.
I see.
So, is your high school's team good?
Um, I'm not so sure.
They said it used to be good, but then it went downhill.
But only recently...
I'd say it's a pretty good team.
What school do you—
Kenma!
Kuro.
Gotta go.
See you later, Shouyou.
Don't wander off like that.
Sorry.
You don't know your way around here, so be careful.
"See you later"?
Hinata!
Jeez, we've been looking for you.
I'm sorry!
I ran so fast, I went the wrong way.
You always give every kind of practice your all.
Yes, but I need more practice.
I still need to improve.
It's frustrating that I don't get treated like a real player without being a matched set with Kageyama.
But I still want to play.
I want to stand on the court.
Same here.
I also want to stand on the court.
That's why I fight using my own methods.
C'mon. You'll be late for lunch!
Yessir!
Miyagi Prefectural Norikizawa High School
Say, isn't their setter kind of on the short side?
Yeah, and he's kind of spindly.
You think he's their backup setter?
I've never heard of their school before.
The short, spindly guy you speak of...
is the spine and brain of Nekoma's team.
And its heart.
Haikyuu !!
Mr. Ukai?
What's up?
Us third-years don't have a next year.
That's why I want us to win as many matches as possible.
I want us to get the ticket to the next match.
If Kageyama is the better choice to get that ticket,
then I think you should select him without hesitation.
Daichi and Asahi have been playing together since they were first-years.
I want to stand on the same court with them.
The longer the better.
If Kageyama gets tired or something unavoidable happens,
even if I'm just filling a gap or subbing in,
even if you pity me for being in this position despite my seniority...
If it means I'll have more chances to play in matches,
I'll take what I can get.
Even if I'm not the starting setter, I will never give up on playing.
I want to be given more chances to do that.
I'm sorry for coming off so snotty.
Sugawara.
I believe I underestimated you.
To be honest, you're freaking me out right now.
What?
I'm still green as an instructor,
but I'll do everything I can to keep you guys on the winning track.
Thank you, sir!
Sure.
We're gonna get motivated.
We're going after that one extra win.
Yeah.
Thank you for the food!
Where do you get that appetite?
Hey, eat up!
Force it down if you have to!
How do you expect to handle the summer if you're choking right now?!
You've got a healthy appetite today, Suga.
You're gonna wither up and die!
Really?
I need to fill up so I can work my hardest!
Yamaguchi, not eating that? Can I have it?
Hey! Let Yamaguchi eat his own food!
This is our starting order for the Nekoma match.
Sawamura
Hinata
Tanaka
Azumane
Nishinoya
Tsukishima
Kageyama
You guys haven't had much time to get acquainted.
I don't expect you to function with mechanical precision.
Just because a hotshot libero is on the team and the ace returned, it doesn't mean that victory is a sure thing.
The winner keeps the ball in play.
We'll see how far this ragtag team can go.
This is Crow versus its nemesis, Cat!
Equipment Room
m 846 373.5 l 844.5 460.5 1159.5 490.5 1161 406.5
Yessir!
Asahi!
Setting Suga aside,
don't you feel bad for Ennoshita?
What?!
The court is only for the strong!
This is obvious!
Um, Asahi?
I haven't always been dedicated to the sport.
I even ran away from it once.
That's why.
Once he becomes tougher than you in body and spirit,
he'll take away that regular spot from you, fair and square!
Right, Chikara?
Don't put words in my mouth...
No, wait. You'd have to take Ryuu's regular spot first!
That's fine by me, scumbag!
Come at me, Ennoshita, you scumbag!
Nishinoya! Just stop it, okay?!
All right.
Hey, Ennoshita?
About what you said before practice...
You mean how I ran away?
Did you hear about how Coach Ukai came out of retirement last year?
Yes.
That was when, and this is very pathetic, several of us couldn't handle the training.
The sport we'd been doing for fun
suddenly became all about winning.
It was like our comfort zone was invaded, and we were all scared away.
But then we wanted to play volleyball again.
By the time we came back, Coach Ukai was gone.
I know we're a bunch of pathetic second-years,
but now that we're back, we plan to work every bit as hard as you guys.
So we're counting on you all over again.
Yes, sir!
Mr. Takeda?
Hey, are they ready?
Yes.
The uniforms have been cleaned and altered.
I saw this on TV!
Here.
Hey! Noya's the only one who gets orange! That stands out!
Thank you.
Well, duh. That's because I'm the star!
The star!
During a match, the libero goes
on and off the court many times,
so his is different from the others to make it obvious, dumbass.
I-I knew that!
I totally knew that!
K-Kageyama's is one number higher.
I knew he'd say that.
We're first-years, so be grateful
that you're getting a uniform at all.
I know that!
I get it.
He doesn't remember the number.
He only saw him on TV that one time.
Huh?
The number worn by the Little Giant when he played at nationals
was ten.
Did you arrange this especially for me, Coach?
No, just coincidence.
Then it's destiny!
It was coincidence.
Don't be jealous of me, Kageyama.
Why would I be jealous of you?!
Incidentally, at the time Hinata's hero, the Little Giant,
played here, Karasuno was at its best.
But for all that, Karasuno didn't beat Nekoma a single time.
It ended in a losing streak.
I want you to clear our name.
Yes, sir!
Okay, now let's resume practice!
That must mean that Nekoma has a good team.
What kind of team do they have?
I don't know their current status,
but they've always had good receivers.
They never had any stand-out players,
but they also had no holes in their defense.
They're our opposite.
They're called Cat for a reason.
They're flexible.
What is this? I keep on hitting it, but it just won't land on their side of the court.
Nekoma        Shirato
All right!
They don't have any prodigies on attack or defense,
so why are they so good?
Does our fateful opponent, Karasuno, have a female manager? Yes or no?
My yakisoba bun says no!
What?
I want them to have one, so I say yes!
Same here.
You idiot!
We don't have one, so it would be frustrating if they did!
What?
What if it's far worse, and their manager is both female and beautiful?!
I would never forgive that!
Ever!
If that time should come,
prepare to meet your fate, Karasuno!
Yamamoto, shut up!
Hey, what do you think, Kenma?
It wouldn't matter either way.
Hmph. I knew you'd say that.
But...
I'm looking forward to our match with them just a little.
Mr. Unenthusiastic Kenma is actually looking forward to a match?!
Yamamoto, would you like me to put your excess energy to use by upping your training workload?
S-Sorry, sir.
Hey, Hinata.
They said it's time to hit the showers.
Hey, don't tense your gut and puke again.
I-I'm not gonna puke!
I know this is obvious, but everybody is preparing to play whether they're in the lineup or not.
I'm only starting because of your sets.
I hate to say it, but I bet I wouldn't be starting by myself.
I'm taking my shower and going straight to bed!
You piece of shit! You took a flying start!
Why do they have to race just to get to the showers?
Idiots.
It's exhausting to watch them.
Hey! Who's running?!
Karasuno High School Volleyball Team
If I tell you this story,
I wonder if I can explain to you
my feelings
and the distance between us
Standing on an empty field
I breathe out into the night air
Countless times I swore that I would change
I stumbled and fell a lot,
but I swore I would laugh at the end
and not let my tears go to waste
There are so many dreams that can definitely come true
I always sat somewhere, downcast, dejected, depressed,
but still I decided I would fight,
and not let all my frustration go to waste
This is our revenge
Next Episode Preview
It's finally time for our match with Nekoma.
Yeah, but it's like the match is full of guys with weird heads shaped like pudding and roosters.
Don't worry! They're not that tall.
Like you can talk.
Episode Twelve:
The Cat and Crow Reunion
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
"The Cat and Crow Reunion."